Now that we can load a single post,
let's make sure we can also edit a post
and as always, that journey starts on the backend. There in the schema, we want to add a new mutation
because obviously editing a post is a mutation,
I'll name it
update post and I expect to get the ID of the post
I want to edit and then some post input which is my post input data, so the exact same data I expected
to get for creating a new post. As a result I will return the updated post.
So this is my schema,
now onto the resolvers where I will add update post as an async function again where I get my arguments,
I will have the ID and the post input and the request object.
So this is my update post
resolver, in there
I first of all want to check the authentication status and throw an error
if the user has not authenticated
hence we can copy the code from our other resolver functions where we had a similar check and then I'll
first of all get my post by using await and post find by id and using that ID I extract as an argument.
I'll also populate that with the creator
so that we have the full user data when we return the update post,
then I'll check if we don't find a post and I can copy that check from up there to return an error
in that case and if we do have a post, well then I want to check if the user who tries to edit it is the
user who created it and for that, I'll check
if post creator_id toString,
if that is equal to request user ID
and that also convert it to a string.
If these two match, then I know this user is the creator,
if they don't match,
so if I add an exclamation mark here, then know someone tries to edit the post who is not authorized to do
so. And in this case, I'll again create an error,
not authorized, could be the error message we throw,
I'll add a code of 403 and I'll throw that error and then we can continue.
If we are the right user however, we can now edit the post and set the title equal to post input title,
we could now also add validation by the way and we should,
so I can scroll up to my create post function and grab that validation logic,
all the logic beginning from the empty array being set up to the errors being checked and that is something
I also want to do before I start editing my post
title and so on
but now here I know that the input is valid.
So now I will edit my title,
I will edit my content and I will now also edit my image url
if it changed and that is not guaranteed because the user did not select a new image, the image will
not have changed. So I'll check if post image image
url is unequal to undefined
and now this has to be checked against a text because it will be converted to text,
by the way I'm sending it on the frontend. So if this is undefined,
then I will continue but if it is not undefined, then I'll also override the image url with the
new image url of course,
otherwise I will not touch the image url and then I'll have my updated post by awaiting for
post save and I will then return my updated post here or some data.
I will return my updated post doc data and again replace the ID with updated post ID toString and
the same for the dates, createdAt will be replaced with updated post createdAt to ISO string and updatedAt
will be replaced with updated post updatedAt to ISO string,
so this is the response I want to send back to my client here.
With that we get a resolver in place, we hopefully get everything in place we need,
let's now go on to our react application and there in feed.js, we need to find finish edit handler.
So if we scroll down,
in this function, in the finish edit handler function, we will always send our image to that endpoint,
though of course it could be the case that there is no image to append if no new image was chosen
but that will be fine,
we do handle that scenario in our endpoint right, in post image,
we check for the existence of a file and we send a response if no file was provided.
So thereafter here we continue
and we'll have a file path though that file path might very well be undefined and that is why in my
graphql API, I check for it being undefined.
We could handle this in different ways of course, we could alternatively simply keep the old file path
here then if this is undefined
but I will go with this approach and then we send the graphql query.
Now of course it will not always go to create post though, it might also be that we edit a post.
So I'll check if this state edit post is true-ish which means we are editing and then I'll set graphql
query to a different query,
so to an object where my query then looks differently. I will copy this query in general so I'll copy
all the code between my opening and closing back ticks, like this
but of course I'm targeting update post here and not create post, so I'm targeting this mutation here
and there, I also need to pass in different data.
I need to pass in my ID
which I get from this state edit post_id,
I still pass in the post input as before,
that did not change and I still want to get the same data back, so that also does not change.
Then we send that request and in the handler of the request,
I already have some logic that should handle this correctly if we are updating.
So let's save that all and let's give it a try,
let's reload and let's edit another duck and add a couple of exclamation marks without adding a new image
and I get an error here.
In general though, it looks like it worked,
I have my exclamation marks here and the image, the old one is also still there,
I can also still view that
and here I see the change too. Now regarding that error,
well that is related to how we extract data from the response, we access create post
but of course if we send an update post request, then this field in which our response data is stored
will be named update post and not create post.
Therefore here and we can
by the way validate this here,
it's stored in update post.
Therefore what we can do is we can add a new variable, response data field or whatever you want to name
it
and by default that should be create post because creating a post also is our default query up there.
But then I'll add an if check and I'll see if this state edit post is true-ish
in which case the data field where I want to extract the data will be update post
and now we just need to use that variable here to dynamically retrieve our data and we can do that by
selecting all these create post instances here with the first dot and replace them with square brackets
where we pass in res data field and this will now use the value inside of res data field to access,
well property with the name of that value on our data object.
And now if we reload, we should be able to remove the exclamation marks and try out choosing a cup as
an image here,
accept, no error and we see the cup here too.
So this all seems to work, the status and deleting of posts are the remaining things that don't work.